update contributing guide (#198)
flatironinstitute/nemos: CONTRIBUTING.md

This guide explains how to contribute: if you have questions about the process, please feel free to reach out on [Github Discussions](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/nemos/discussions).

## General Guidelines

Developers are encouraged to contribute to various areas of development. This could include the creation of concrete classes, such as those for new basis function types, or the addition of further checks at evaluation. Enhancements to documentation and the overall readability of the code are also greatly appreciated.

Feel free to work on any section of code that you believe you can improve. More importantly, remember to thoroughly test all your classes and functions, and to provide clear, detailed comments within your code. This not only aids others in using the library, but also facilitates future maintenance and further development.

## Contributing to the code

### Contribution workflow cycle

In order to contribute, you will need to do the following:

> 1) Create your own branch

Reviewer: I think we should suggest to fork

Reviewer 2: second this

Reviewer 2: looks like the following text does talk about forking, so this is a remnant of an earlier version and confusing

2) Make sure that tests pass and code coverage is maintained
3) Open a Pull Request

The NeMoS package follows the [GitHub Flow](https://www.gitkraken.com/learn/git/best-practices/git-branch-strategy#github-flow-branch-strategy) workflow. In essence, this means no one is allowed to
push to the `main` branch and all development happens in separate feature branches that are then merged into `main` once we have determined they are ready. When enough changes have accumulated, we 
put out a new release, adding a new tag which increments the version number, and upload the new release to PyPI. 

#### Creating a development environment

You will need a local installation of `nemos` which keeps up-to-date with any changes you make. To do so, you will need to clone `nemos` and checkout a new branch:

> 1) Clone the `nemos` repo to your local machine

Reviewer: changing to fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/flatironinstitute/nemos.git
cd nemos
```

2) Install `nemos` in editable mode with developer dependencies  
```bash
pip install -e .[dev]
```

> **_NOTE:_**  In order to install `nemos` in editable mode you will need a Python virtual environment. Please see our documentation [here](https://nemos.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/) that 
> provides guidance on how to create and activate a virtual environment.

#### Creating a new branch

As mentioned previously, each feature in `nemos` is worked on in a separate branch. This allows multiple people developing multiple features simultaneously, without interfering with each other's work. To create
your own branch, run the following from within your `nemos` directory:

```bash
# switch to the main branch
git checkout main
# update your main branch

> git pull origin main

Reviewer: should we suggest to checkout to development?

# create and switch to a new branch
git checkout -b my_feature_branch
```

After you have made changes on this branch, add and commit them when you are ready:

```bash
# stage the changes

> git add src/nemos/the_changed_file.py

Reviewer: what's your opinion of using:
git add -u .

for adding any updated file?

Author: My only thought is that sometimes there are files that we don't want people to commit. For example, I often test things in a juypter notebook but I would never want to commit that. I think it is better to have people do `git status` and then selectively choose the correct files.

Reviewer: are the notebook are part of the repo?

Reviewer 2: I agree it's a bad idea to tell people to use `git add .` (though I wasn't aware of `-u`, that's a handy flag, and avoids many of the potential problems). but I agree with Caitlin that we want people to be selective in what they add

# commit your changes
git commit -m "A one-line message explaining the changes made"
# push to the remote origin
git push origin my_feature_branch
```

#### Contributing your change back to NeMoS

You can make any number of changes on your branch. Once you are happy with your changes, add tests to check that they run correctly and add documentation to properly note your changes. 
See below for details on how to [add tests](#adding-tests) and properly [document](#adding-documentation) your code.

Lastly, you should make sure that the existing tests all run successfully and that the codebase is formatted properly:

```bash
# run tests and make sure they all pass
pytest tests/
# format the code base

> black src/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
black src
isort src
flake8 --config=tox.ini src
```

> black tests/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Currently not required

```

> > **_NOTE:_** If some files were reformatted after running `black`, make sure to commit those changes and push them to your feature branch as well. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **_INFO:_** [`black`](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) and [`isort`](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/) automatically reformat your code and organize your imports, respectively. [`flake8`](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/stable/#) does not modify your code directly; instead, it identifies syntax errors and code complexity issues that need to be addressed manually.

> **_NOTE:_** If some files were reformatted after running `black` or `isort`, make sure to commit those changes and push them to your feature branch as well. 
```

I don't know if the `__INFO:__` renders well, but we need to provide some details about the fact that if `flake8` fails, errors must be addressed.

- Any public method or function must have a complete type-annotated docstring (see below for details). Hidden ones do not need to have complete docstrings, but they probably should.

#### Adding a regularization method

All regularization method can be found in `/src/nemos/regularizer.py`. If you would like to add a new regularizer class to the `nemos` 
library, it will need to do the following:

1) Inherit from the base `Regularizer` base class
2) Have an `_allowed_solvers` attribute of type `List[str]` that gives the `string` names of compatible `jaxopt` solvers
3) Have two methods implemented
   - `get_proximal_operator()` that returns the proximal operator for the regularization method when using projected gradient descent
   - `penalized_loss()` that wraps a given model's loss function and returns the augmented loss based on the regularization being applied

#### Adding a new model

A new model should be put into its own `.py` file. If you would like to add a new model to the `nemos` library, it will need to inherit from the 
`BaseRegressor` class and implement all of its abstract methods. 

#### Adding a new optimization method

#### Adding a new basis 

### Testing 

> To run all tests, run `pytest tests/` from within the main `nemos` repository. This may take a while as there are many tests, broken into several categories. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run all tests, run `pytest` from within the main `nemos` repository. This may take a while as there are many tests, broken into several categories. 
```

a medium-length description of the function / class and what it does, and a complete description of all arguments and return values. 
Math should be included in a `Notes` section when necessary to explain what the function is doing, and references to primary literature 
should be included in a `References` section when appropriate. Docstrings should be relatively short, providing the information necessary 
for a user to use the code.

Private functions and classes should have sufficient explanation that other developers know what the function / class does and how to use it, 
but do not need to be as extensive.

We follow the [numpydoc](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) conventions for docstring structure.

2) **Examples/Tutorials**

If your changes are significant (add a new functionality or drastically change the current codebase), then the current examples may need to be updated or 
a new example may need to be added.

All examples live within the `docs/` subfolder of `nemos`. 

To see if changes you have made break the current documentation, you can build the documentation locally. 

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
# Clear the cached documentation pages
# This step is only necessary if your changes affected the src/ directory
rm -r docs/generated
```

Feel free to work on any section of code that you believe you can improve. More importantly, remember to thoroughly test all your classes and functions, and to provide clear, detailed comments within your code. This not only aids others in using the library, but also facilitates future maintenance and further development.

For more detailed information about NeMoS modules, including design choices and implementation details, visit the [`For Developers`](https://nemos.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developers_notes/) section of the package documentation.

## Contributing to the code

### Contribution workflow cycle

In order to contribute, you will need to do the following:

1) Create your own branch
2) Make sure that tests pass and code coverage is maintained
3) Open a Pull Request

The NeMoS package follows the [GitHub Flow](https://www.gitkraken.com/learn/git/best-practices/git-branch-strategy#github-flow-branch-strategy) workflow. In essence, this means no one is allowed to

> push to the `main` branch and all development happens in separate feature branches that are then merged into `main` once we have determined they are ready. When enough changes have accumulated, we 

Reviewer 2: this isn't true for you guys, right? feature branches get merged into `development`, and then gets merged into `main` after enough changes have accumulated, before release?

put out a new release, adding a new tag which increments the version number, and upload the new release to PyPI. 

#### Creating a development environment

You will need a local installation of `nemos` which keeps up-to-date with any changes you make. To do so, you will need to fork and clone `nemos` before checking out
a new branch:

1) Go to the [nemos repo](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/nemos) and click on the `Fork` button at the top right of the page. This will create a copy
of `nemos` in your GitHub account. You should then clone *your fork* to your local machine.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<YourUserName>/nemos.git
cd nemos
```

2) Install `nemos` in editable mode with developer dependencies  

```bash
pip install -e .[dev]
```

> > **_NOTE:_**  In order to install `nemos` in editable mode you will need a Python virtual environment. Please see our documentation [here](https://nemos.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/) that 
> > provides guidance on how to create and activate a virtual environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]  In order to install `nemos` in editable mode you will need a Python virtual environment. Please see our documentation [here](https://nemos.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/) that 
> provides guidance on how to create and activate a virtual environment.
```

I believe this is the supported syntax for [admonition-like notes](https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/16925) in github-flavored markdown, if that's what you'd like here

3) Add the upstream branch:

```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/flatironinstitute/nemos
```

At this point you have two remotes: `origin` (your fork) and `upstream` (the canonical version). You won't have permission to push to upstream (only `origin`), but 
this make it easy to keep your `nemos` up-to-date with the canonical version by pulling from upstream: `git pull upstream`.

#### Creating a new branch

As mentioned previously, each feature in `nemos` is worked on in a separate branch. This allows multiple people developing multiple features simultaneously, without interfering with each other's work. To create
your own branch, run the following from within your `nemos` directory:

> **_NOTE:_** Below we are checking out the `development` branch. In terms of the `nemos` contribution workflow cycle, the `development` branch accumulates a series of

> > changes from different feature branches that are then all merged into the `main` branch at one time (normally at the time of a release) :D

Reviewer 2: same for admonition

```bash

> # switch to the development branch
> git checkout development
> # update your development branch
> git pull origin development
> # sync with upstream development
> git pull upstream development
> # update your fork's development branch with any changs from upstream
> git push origin development
> # create and switch to a new branch
> git checkout -b my_feature_branch

Reviewer 2: git is confusing to people, I'd be more explicit with these comments:

```suggestion
# switch to the development branch on your local copy
git checkout development
# update your local copy from your fork
git pull origin development
# sync your local copy with upstream development
git pull upstream development
# update your fork's development branch with any changs from upstream
git push origin development
# create and switch to a new branch, where you'll work on your new feature
git checkout -b my_feature_branch
```

```

After you have made changes on this branch, add and commit them when you are ready:

```bash
# stage the changes
git add src/nemos/the_changed_file.py
# commit your changes
git commit -m "A one-line message explaining the changes made"
# push to the remote origin
git push origin my_feature_branch
```

#### Contributing your change back to NeMoS

You can make any number of changes on your branch. Once you are happy with your changes, add tests to check that they run correctly and add documentation to properly note your changes. 
See below for details on how to [add tests](#adding-tests) and properly [document](#adding-documentation) your code.

Lastly, you should make sure that the existing tests all run successfully and that the codebase is formatted properly:

```bash
# run tests and make sure they all pass
pytest tests/
# format the code base
black src/
isort src
flake8 --config=tox.ini src

> ```

Reviewer 2: is it worth telling people to just use tox here? that way they only need to run one command (and we know it's the same as the tests)

- Run tests from one file: `pytest tests/test_glm.py`
- Run a specific test within a specific module: `pytests tests/test_glm.py::test_func`
- Another example specifying a test method via the command line: `pytest tests/test_glm.py::GLMClass::test_func`

#### Adding tests

New tests can be added in any of the existing `tests/test_*.py` scripts. Tests should be functions, contained within classes. The class contains a bunch of related tests
(e.g., regularizers, bases), and each test should ideally be a unit test, only testing one thing. The classes should be named `TestSomething`, while test functions should be named 
`test_something` in snakecase.

If you're adding a substantial bunch of tests that are separate from the existing ones, you can create a new test script. Its name must begin with `test_`, 
it must have an `.py` extension, and it must be contained within the `tests` directory. Assuming you do that, our github actions will automatically find it and 
add it to the tests-to-run.

> **_NOTE:_** If you have many variants on a test you wish to run, you should make use of pytest's `parameterize` mark. See the official

> > documentation [here](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/parametrize.html).

Reviewer 2: I'd add something like, ", and see `some_test_function` for a simple example of how we use them".

> **_NOTE_** If you are using an object that gets used in multiple tests (such as a model with certain data, regularizer, or solver), you should use pytest's `fixtures` to avoid having to 
> load or instantiate the object multiple times. Look at our `conftest.py` to see already available fixtures for your tests. See the official documentation 

> > [here](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/fixtures.html).

Reviewer 2: my recollection is that mixing fixtures and parametrize is slightly more complicated, and reuqires the [`indirect` keyword](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/example/parametrize.html#deferring-the-setup-of-parametrized-resources). it doesn't look like you use it nemos, so maybe not worth mentioning here (I use it a lot in plenoptic)

Reviewer 2: no, you don't, I just wanted to point out you should tell people how to do so explicitly if you want people to do it.

### Documentation 

Documentation is a crucial part of open-source software and greatly influences the ability to use a codebase. As such, it is imperative that any new changes are
properly documented as outlined below. 

#### Adding documentation

1) **Docstrings**

All public-facing functions and classes should have complete docstrings, which start with a one-line short summary of the function, 
a medium-length description of the function / class and what it does, and a complete description of all arguments and return values. 
Math should be included in a `Notes` section when necessary to explain what the function is doing, and references to primary literature 
should be included in a `References` section when appropriate. Docstrings should be relatively short, providing the information necessary 
for a user to use the code.

Private functions and classes should have sufficient explanation that other developers know what the function / class does and how to use it, 
but do not need to be as extensive.

We follow the [numpydoc](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) conventions for docstring structure.

> 2) **Examples/Tutorials**

Reviewer 2: worth describing this a bit more: these are written as .py files but are converted to notebooks by mkdocs-gallery, and have a special syntax. saying that (with links) might be sufficient, but it won't be obvious to newcomers. may also be worth mentioning why we're avoiding using ipynb directly

If your changes are significant (add a new functionality or drastically change the current codebase), then the current examples may need to be updated or 
a new example may need to be added.

All examples live within the `docs/` subfolder of `nemos`. 

To see if changes you have made break the current documentation, you can build the documentation locally. 

```bash

> # Clear the cached documentation pages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Clear the cached documentation pages, if any.
```

you will probably need to respond to our comments, making changes as appropriate. We'll then respond again, and proceed in an iterative fashion until everyone is happy with the proposed 
changes. 

Additionally, every PR to `main` or `development` will automatically run linters and tests through a [GitHub action](https://docs.github.com/en/actions). Merges can happen only when all check passes.

> [!NOTE]

> > The [NeMoS GitHub action](.github/workflows/ci.yml) runs tests in an isolated environment using [`tox`](https://tox.wiki/en/). `tox` is not installed by default as an optional dependency. If you want to replicate the action workflow locally, you need to install `tox` via pip and then run it. From the package directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The [NeMoS GitHub action](.github/workflows/ci.yml) runs tests in an isolated environment using [`tox`](https://tox.wiki/en/). `tox` is not included in our optional dependencies, so if you want to replicate the action workflow locally, you need to install `tox` via pip and then run it. From the package directory:
```
